[docs] New architecture landing page (#25544)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/new-architecture.mdx

---
title: New Architecture

> description: Learn about React Native's "New Architecture" and how and why to migrate to it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about React Native's "New Architecture" and how and why to migrate to it.
```

 Missing period.

---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> The New Architecture is a name that we use to describe a complete refactoring of the internals of React Native, to solve limitations of the original React Native architecture that were discovered over years of usage in production at Meta and other companies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The New Architecture is a name that we use to describe a complete refactoring of the internals of React Native. It is also used to solve limitations of the original React Native architecture discovered over years of usage in production at Meta and other companies.
```

I think we can break the sentence here as it was too long and adding a pause using `,` didn't serve the purpose.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "This refactoring solves limitations" since the name itself solves nothing

> The New Architecture is a name that we use to describe a completely refactoring of the internals of React Native, to solve for limitations of the original React Native architecture that were discovered over years of usage in production at Meta and the community.

Reviewer 2: Small typo fix, remove words where possible, and personally I find "the community" a bit trite and carries less weight than "other companies" but I understand if you think differently:

```suggestion
The New Architecture is a name that we use to describe a complete refactoring of the internals of React Native, to solve limitations of the original React Native architecture that were discovered over years of usage in production at Meta and other companies.
```

In this guide, we'll talk about how to use the New Architecture in Expo projects today.

To learn more about the ideas and motivations behind the New Architecture, we recommend the following resources:

<BoxLink
  title="Introduction to the New Architecture"
  description="A starting point for exploring the various topics related to the New Architecture."
  href="https://reactnative.dev/docs/the-new-architecture/landing-page"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

<BoxLink
  title="Why a New Architecture"
  description="A high level overview of the motivations behind the New Architecture."
  href="https://reactnative.dev/docs/the-new-architecture/why"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## Why invest in migrating to the New Architecture?

> The New Architecture is the future of React Native — yet, for many apps, there may not be many immediate benefits to migrating today. You may want to think of migrating to the New Architecture as an investment in the future of your app, rather than as a way to immediately improve your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The New Architecture is the future of React Native &mdash; yet, for many apps, there may not be many immediate benefits to migrating today. You may want to think of migrating to the New Architecture as an investment in the future of your app, rather than as a way to immediately improve your app.
```

> The New Architecture is the future of React Native — yet, for many apps, there may not be many immediate benefits to migrating today. You may want to think of migrating to the New Architecture as an investment in the future of your app, rather than as a way to immediately improve your app.

Reviewer 2: Really like this framing 👍

Reviewer 3: Yeah this is great.

> The changes that come with the New Architecture address technical debt of the original implementation and unlock possibilities for solving long standing issues in React Native, such as interoperability with synchronous native APIs (eg: `UITableView`), and pave the way for [concurrent React support](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/29/react-v18#what-is-concurrent-react).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The changes that come with the New Architecture address the technical debt of the original implementation and unlock possibilities for solving long-standing issues in React Native, such as interoperability with synchronous native APIs (for example, `UITableView`), and pave the way for [concurrent React support](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/29/react-v18#what-is-concurrent-react).
```

Let's [avoid Latin abbreviations according to our writing style guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#abbreviations).

> The changes that come with the New Architecture address technical debt of the original implementation and unlock possibilities for solving long standing issues in React Native, such as interoperability with synchronous native APIs (eg: `UITableView`), and pave the way for for [concurrent React support](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/29/react-v18#what-is-concurrent-react).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The changes that come with the New Architecture address technical debt of the original implementation and unlock possibilities for solving long standing issues in React Native, such as interoperability with synchronous native APIs (eg: `UITableView`), and pave the way for [concurrent React support](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/29/react-v18#what-is-concurrent-react).
```

## Expo tools and the New Architecture

As of SDK 49, all `expo-*` packages in the [Expo SDK](/versions/latest/) support the New Architecture, with the exception of `expo-updates`. We plan to add support for `expo-updates` in SDK 51.

> Additionally, all third-party modules written using the [Expo Modules API](/modules/overview/) support the New Architecture by default! So if you have built your own native modules using this API, no additional work is needed to use them with the New Architecture.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it comes across a bit better to leave out "third-party" so readers don't feel like modules outside of expo/expo aren't first-class.  I understand it serves to distinguish modules not written by the Expo team from the Expo SDK above, though, but the second sentence in this paragraph also explicitly says, "your own native modules."

```suggestion
Additionally, all modules written using the [Expo Modules API](/modules/overview/) support the New Architecture by default! So if you have built your own native modules using this API, no additional work is needed to use them with the New Architecture.
```

> ## Initializing a new project with the New Architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Initialize a new project with the New Architecture
```

Since we are moving to use less gerunds and rely more on short form verbs for section headings, and as this is a new doc, so let's update this to maintain concistency.

The easiest way to get started with the New Architecture is to use the `with-new-arch` template when creating a new project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app@latest -e with-new-arch']} />

> ## Enabling the New Architecture in an existing project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable the New Architecture in an existing project
```

> > Note: `expo-updates` does not yet support the New Architecture. If you use `expo-updates` in your project, you will need to remove it before continuing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: `expo-updates` does not yet support the New Architecture. If you use it in your project, you will need to remove it before continuing.
```

We can avoid referencing library name twice in the sentence for consistency.

> > Note: `expo-updates` does not yet support the New Architecture. If you use `expo-updates` in your project, you will need to remove it before continuing.

Reviewer 2: @quinlanj @douglowder It could be good to look into New Architecture support and backport it to SDK 50 if possible

> You can enable the New Architecture in your app using the [expo-build-properties](/versions/latest/sdk/build-properties/) config plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable the New Architecture in your app using the [`expo-build-properties`](/versions/latest/sdk/build-properties/) config plugin:
```

<Step label="1">

Install `expo-build-properties`:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install expo-build-properties']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

> Set `newArchEnabled` on target platforms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `newArchEnabled` on target platforms:
```

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-build-properties",
        {
          "ios": {
            "newArchEnabled": true
          },
          "android": {
            "newArchEnabled": true
          }
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

> Run prebuild and compile your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run prebuild command and compile your project:
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild --clean', '$ npx expo run:android # or ios', '$ eas build -p android # or ios']} />

</Step>

> If the build succeeds, you'll now be running your app with the New Architecture! Depending on the native modules you use, your app may work properly immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the build succeeds, you will now be running your app with the New Architecture! Depending on the native modules you use, your app may work properly immediately.
```

> Now you can tap around your app and test it out. For most non-trivial apps, you're likely to encounter some issues, such as missing native views that haven't been implemented for the New Architecture yet. Many of the issues you encounter are actionable and can be resolved with some configuration or code changes. We recommend reading the ["Using the compatibility layer"]() and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) sections below for more information.

Reviewer 2: Missing link for "Using the compatibility layer" -- but I see that section is still under construction.

> Now you can tap around your app and test it out. For most non-trivial apps, you're likely to encounter some issues, such as missing native views that haven't been implemented for the New Architecture yet. Many of the issues you encounter are actionable and can be resolved with some configuration or code changes. We recommend reading the ["Using the compatibility layer"]() and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) sections below for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
Now you can tap around your app and test it out. For most non-trivial apps, you're likely to encounter some issues, such as missing native views that haven't been implemented for the New Architecture yet. Many of the issues you encounter are actionable and can be resolved with some configuration or code changes. We recommend reading the ["Using the compatibility layer"](#using-the-compatibility-layer) and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) sections below for more information.
```

> Now you can tap around your app and test it out. For most non-trivial apps, you're likely to encounter some issues, such as missing native views that haven't been implemented for the New Architecture yet. Many of the issues you encounter are actionable and can be resolved with some configuration or code changes. We recommend reading the ["Using the compatibility layer"](#using-the-compatibility-layer) and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) sections below for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can tap around your app and test it out. For most non-trivial apps, you're likely to encounter some issues, such as missing native views that haven't been implemented for the New Architecture yet. Many of the issues you encounter are actionable and can be resolved with some configuration or code changes. We recommend reading the [Using the compatibility layer](#using-the-compatibility-layer) and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) sections below for more information.
```

<Collapsible summary="Are you enabling the New Architecture in a bare React Native app?">

Refer to the ["Prerequisites for Applications" section of the React Native documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/new-architecture-app-intro) for instructions on how to enable the New Architecture in your project.

</Collapsible>

## Using the compatibility layer

TODO: write about the compatibility layer here

## Troubleshooting

> Meta and Expo are working towards making the New Architecture the default for all new apps and ensuring that it as easy as possible to migrate existing apps. However, the New Architecture isn't just a name — many of the internals of React Native have been re-architected and rebuilt from the ground up. As a result, you may encounter issues when enabling the New Architecture in your app. The following is some advice for troubleshooting these issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meta and Expo are working towards making the New Architecture the default for all new apps and ensuring it is as easy as possible to migrate existing apps. However, the New Architecture isn't just a name &mdash; many of the internals of React Native have been re-architected and rebuilt from the ground up. As a result, you may encounter issues when enabling the New Architecture in your app. The following is some advice for troubleshooting these issues.
```
